1.1 Cluster Analysis : An Introduction (03:09)

Session 1 What is a cluster Analysis?
What is a cluster?
A cluster is a collection of data objects which are
Similar (or related) to one another within the same group (i.e., cluster) 
Dissimilar (or unrelated) to the objects in other groups (i.e., clusters)

Cluster analysis (or clustering, data segmentation, ...)
Given a set of data points, partition them into a set of groups (i.e, clusters)
which are as similar as possible

Cluster analysis is unsupervised learning (i.e, no predefined classes)
This contrasts with classification (i.e, supervised learning)

Typical ways to use/apply cluster analysis
As a stand-alone tool to geet insight into data distribution, or
As a preprocessing (or intermediate) step for other algorithms

--__--__--

1.2 Applications of Cluster Analysis (02:19)

-A key intermediate step for other data mining tasks
.Generating a compact summary of data for classification, pattern discovery,
hypothesis generation and testing, etc.
.Outlier detection: Outliers - those "far away"from any cluster
-Data summarization, compression, and reduction
.ex. Image processing: Vector quantization
-Collaborative filtering, recommendation systems, or customer segmentation
.Find like-minded users or similar products
-Dynamic trend detection
.Clustering stream data and detecting trends and patterns
-Multimedia data analysis, biological data analysis and social network analysis
.ex. Clustering images or video/audio clips, gene/protein sequences, etc.

Can we use clustering to help classification tasks?
Yes ! We can use clustering as a preprocessing step in classification tasks to help
us deal with features sparsity issues as well as engineering complex features. For
example, in a medical database, each patient may have a distinct real-valued measure
for certain tests (e.g. glucose, cholesterol). Clustering patients first may help us
understand how binning should be done on real-valued feature to reduce feature
sparsity and improve accuracy on classification tasks such as survival prediction.

--__--__--

1.3 Requirements, and Challenges (5:12)

Considerations for Cluster Analysis

-Partitioning criteria
.Single level vs hierarchical partitioning (often, multi-level hierarchical
partitioning is desirable)

-Separation of cluster
.Exclusive (e.g, one of customer belongs to only one region) vs non-exclusive (e.g.,
one document may belong to more than on class)

-Similarity measure
.Distance-based (e.g., Euclidean, road network, vector) vs. connectivity based (e.g., 
density or contiguity)

-Clustering space
.Full space (often when low dimensional) vs. subspaces (often in high-dimensional
clustering)

In wich of the following scenarios is hierarchical partition likely to be desired
over single level partitioning?
(x) Clustering documents by topics, where there might be inherent hierarchy in the
topics (e.g., Computer Science->Data Mining->Cluster Analysis)
(x) Clustering organisms based on their characteristics (e.g. appearance, behaviors, 
genetic makeup). (Hint: think about taxonomy in biology)
(x) Clustering people by geolocation where we may wish to examine the population at
different levels of resolution (e.g. Country->State->Municipality)

Requirements and Challenges
-Quality
.Ability to deal with different types of attributes: Numerical, categorical, text,
multimedia, networks, and mixture of multiple types
.Discovery of clusters with arbitrary shape
.Abililty to deal with noisy data

-Scalability
.Clustering all the data instead of only on samples
.High dimensionality
.Incremental or stream clustering and insensitivity to input order

-Constraint-based clustering
.User-given preferences or constraints; domain knowledge; user queries

-Interpretability and usability

--__--__--

1.4 A Multi-Dimensional Categorization (02:19)

